My husband and Just stayed at the Hotel Alessandra From Sept 30 -October 5. We were so happy to spend our time in Florence in this hotel. The hotel is run by Andrea and his mom Anna. Both great people. Very warm and welcoming. I had good contact with Andrea months before my arrival as I had heard many things about Italian hotel rooms being small and bathrooms even smaller. My husband is 6’5 so space and comfort are very important details for us. Andrea addressed my concerns by email quickly and he did not disappoint. This was the biggest hotel room I have stayed in all my travels.We stayed in room 21 with a river view. It was spacious, like the size of a studio apt in NYC with a separate bathroom that was spacious as well and had a bathtub. We were thrilled with our room. With Ample storage and mirrors we appreciated that we could unpack our suitcases and store our clothes! There is a restaurant right under the room so there will be some noise from there but they close early and it never affected our rest. We slept every night.The room was equipped with a tv, safe and fridge. We were welcomed with a bottle of proseeco. The room was tidy and clean and they provided ample blankets. They cleaned it well everyday. The only negative regarding the room was the firmness of the bed and pillows. It took some getting used to.The key to the room must be left with reception but this poses no problem as the desk was staffed each night. All the staff members are nice and warm. They were professional and treated us like friends. I loved that. I especially appreciated Cathia (sp) in the mornings and Monti. More on him later!As in a lot of places in Italy, you have to take stairs to get to the lift. So when you are carrying luggage this may be an issue. Thankfully my husband was able to take our bags up to the hotel. I never took the lift once since it’s small, I took the stairs for the exercise. But there is a lift and it works!Breakfast is early I think it starts at 7 or 730 and ends early too by 930. The breakfast is varied and includes eggs, meat, breads, cereals and some fresh fruit, tea and cappuccino. When I made it down to breakfast it was satisfying and a good start for the day and all the walking you do in Florence.Now to the two best things about this hotel:1. LOCATION- dead center of it all. Right by the Ponte Vecchio and the Uffizi Gallery. IT WAS PERFECT. For the price we paid, this hotel was a steal. We walked everywhere from here. We were in the middle of it all. We were ecstatic at how close we were to everything. Stores, restaurants, pharmacy, a deli two doors down which was opened late every night. I can’t stress the importance of how location is a big factor in a great vacation. This hotel had it. Bravo! 2. MONTI - He works the reception and has been a staff member for years. He welcomed us our first night and I fell in love with him. He is warm, energetic, friendly. He was the perfect host and made our stay in Florence wonderful with his tips on restaurants and activities. Monti is simply amazing. He made us feel like family. I loved this place and I will stay here again when, not if, I return to Florence. Great Job Andrea, Anna, Monti and crew. Grazie a tutti!
